Step 1 · A Journey of a Thousand Miles... · Stepik
The place when replication begins is called replication origin (ori). Important to locate them. 
Viral vectors: can penetrate cell walls. 
Gene therapy: inject patient with gene so that it replicates, creates necessary protein, and cures. Knowing location of ori is important. 


Locating ori can be done using computational method. 
Experimental method: remove certain genomes at and see which removal causes replication to stop. 

Ori: usually few hundred nucleotides long. 

DnaA binds to a short segment within or known as DnaA box. -> Tells to start binding there. 
Often times it is a very frequent sequence. 

Naturally leads to the necessity to count the number of a certain sequence appearing. 
K-mer: A substring of length k. 

Quick python tip for finding the maximum frequency in a dictionary. 
M = max(freq.values())

9 mers are often used because DnaA boxes are usually 9 nucleotides long. 

Nucleotides A and T are complements of each other. C and G are complements too. 

Often times read in the opposite direction. (5’ and 3’)
Pretty much calculate the opposite and then reverse it. 

Top down programming: separate each step at a time. 
Probably opposite: do them parallel (place the index is the length-i-1 index or whatever). 

Some 9-mers are in reverse order: super rare so like 99% sure it is the DnaA box. 

The clump finding problem: Find clumps: where the k-mer apears at least t times within the length l. 

So basically there were different theories on how DNA replicated. 
Meselson-Stahl experiment: removed the conservative side. 

Some basic genetic structure I need to understand here: Step 1 · Detour: Directionality of DNA Strands · Stepik

Week 2 goes into detail on how replicates. 
Kind of like a pulling a zipper down. 
Replication doesn't wait until it finishes. 

So DNA polymerases can only copy DNA in one direction (5' to 3'). 

One famous contest by ITMO university but more of a research field. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ha9nppnwOc
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L36jC7Hncy0
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9kp9wiYMQUU

Basically replication is assymetrical. 
Bio is confusing. Talks something about Okazaki fragments. 

DNA ligase sews up the Okazaki fragments. 

Single staranded DNA has much higher mutation rate than double stranded??
What really are reverse and forward haf strands??


